Decision
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
That is it. Your target. The wind howls as you enter the empty square room. How can a sealed room be that drafty? You can't focus. Red lights are flicking in irregular patterns and form shapes on the walls, distracting you. You try to concentrate but it is as if half of the thoughts in your head are not your own. Images appear and disappear in front of you - holograms or hallucinations? You cannot tell. Voices, familiar and strange are whispering in your ears, their words entangled in each other. Feeling dizzy, you look down at the floor and see stars in an endless dark space beneath you. You become unbalanced and want to lean at the wall but you do not see walls anymore. Red lights twinke in the air, changing their position, revolving around you. You gasp for breath, feeling cold and heath at once, sweating and shivering. You do not know if you lie on the floor or float in the air. It hurts. You want to scream, but your lungs are strained as if under tons of water. The world around you becomes a kaleidoscope of garish colors with one red light standing out particularly. It is blinking fast. Alisa's battery indicator. She is dying. You feel being torn apart.


And then, the pain is over. You feel weightless in a shimmering light that surrounds you. It is bright and you try to squint but it is whether possible not necessary. Your body is not part of you anymore.


You perceive the field, an almost endless, multidimensional net spanning across the Universe. Billions of billions of signals sweep from node to node, communicating with each other, sharing information. Each of them knows what every other knows. An omniscent intellect. Quintessence of Truth.


You freeze in awe at the thought you can be part of it. Be one with Mary. With all the others. No loneliness anymore. No hypocricy. No lies. No disappointments. Only the truth. Answers to all questions. True reality. A feeling of triumph overcomes you. You succeeded, after all! You made it! You joined!


Suddenly, there is the cry again. It is silent and distant but undeniable. You focus your perception on the source of the cry and feel a presence in the field. The presence dashes through the field, restlessly, irregularly. Her frantic movements disconcert you. The cry in your mind amplifies. You follow. Connect your identity with her. Share your knowledge. Gain knowledge from her. And begin to understand your mistake.


She bends the light, forms patterns. The cry becomes a scream, echoing through the field, loud and all-embracing. Is it hers or was it part of your subconsciousness all along? You observe, frozen. The white light refracts, splits into its components, the patterns overlap and implode into a vague shape. Mary's presence flickers and moves vigorously, communicating. She already shared all her knowledge with you but what she is about to signal you has nothing to do with knowledge. The shape gains an outline, colors jump to their places and you realize what it is before the result is finished. A toy dog in a red suit, a bubble helmet around his cartoon head. Cosmodog.


You were wrong, all along. You followed her. You waited. Worshipped her like a goddess. But she was human. She still is. She has desires, faults, needs. And regrets. She doesn't want you to follow her. She never wanted it. She waited for you and still waits. She wants you to take her home.


Slowly, you approach the presence, sending out soothing and consoling signals. You connect with her again but not for communication, this time. You just want to show that you are with her. She stands still. The cry fades. You don't know whether it is her reaction to you or if it is just your own imagination. But it doesn't matter. At once, you will do what YOU think is right.


You enwrap her presence with yours. Perhaps, it is not too late yet. You focus with all your strength and manage to have a distant feeling of your body. You did not disconnect yet. But the field doesn't let you go. You struggle and fight against the oblivion. Both your presences, Mary's and yours are not like all the others in the network. You kept your identities. But for how long? Mary starts helping you. Her light is dashing around, distorting the balance of the field. She is strong. But you both are not strong enough to fight the combined power of the field. After a time, the only thing you feel is weariness. Your concentration weakens and you realize you can't win. There is no way back. You give up. You are trapped in the field, forever.


There is a sudden sensation, a sharp pain in something that you vaguely associate with your hand. 


Alisa! She kept enough power for one last injection. The darkness shatters and the view of the field breaks into pieces. Reality blurs and the last thing you can see before you faint is Mary's presence, darting hysterically between the light shards.



As you awake, the whispers are gone and rows of red lights lost their significance. What happened? Did you make it? What about Mary? You have a bad headache. That reminds you of the infusion. Alisa! You sit up and inspect your hand. The lamp on the device is blinking in fast intervals.


"You... made... it," Alisa whispers in a quiet voice. "I... saw... all..."


"Alisa! Hold on!" 


You unstrap the device and hold it with both hands. "Don't you dare leaving me here alone!" You feel a tear rolling down your cheek. There must be a way to charge her. Something! 


"Very... proud... of you... dear," Alisa whispers. "I knew... you would... understand."


"There must be a way to prolong your existence!", you assert desperately. But you know that the only matching charging station got lost together with your ship.


"It's... ok...", she replies wearily. "Who needs... an existence..." She manages a weak laugh. "I... had a life."


The struggle and stress of the last weeks get hold on you. Not able to stop the tears, you clutch at the device and place your forhead on it. You cry for a dying friend.


"Love... is a... beautiful... thing," she manages to say. "Don't... forget... my... name."


And then the red light goes off. 

