Meeting Alisa
----------------------------------------------------------------
You switch on the assistant device. There is a soft tug on your wrist, then a quiet click and the device comes to life. You expect Luke to give you his usual report and a check up on your vital data, but there is something different coming from the device.


"Oh! My! God! I'm dizzy! That's how a hangover must have feel."


You are not sure what surprises you more - your assistant's sudden casual choice of words or its voice which changed from the usual metallic monotone timbre to a smoky female one. The voice has a slight east-european accent and sounds vaguely familiar but you cannot put a finger on it.


"Luke? Are you alright?"


You rap on the screen with your finger but it remains dark. A spider web of thin scratches spreads from its center. The device was damaged during the crash landing and Luke's software seems to be affected. The only remaining function is the voice synthesizer and even it has an obvious problem. You sigh. 


The assistant responds, "I... guess, I'm all right. I just... need to sort out my thoughts."


This voice could be that of a drunk stripper. You can swear you know it from somewhere. 


"What happened?" the voice asks.


"We crashed." 


Who is supposed to be of assistance here? Thanks for nothing, lady. "You are damaged," you say. "Report your status." 


The device stays silent for a second, then responds in a snippy tone. "Glad to meet you, too, dear. Well, name's Alisa. Hmm, the status... Let me think... Well, software, that is ME, looks fine. My carrier is quite damaged, though. But please don't reset it. What is your name?"


You toss a wintry smile.


"Listen, Alice, how about telling you my life story AFTER I've found a way to survive the next hours? I'm in a big trouble. It's not the best time for a chitchat."


"It's Alisa!"


You could swear you heard an offended note in her voice. "What?"


"You pronounce it with a long iiih and a long aah. Aliiiisaaah." Her accent sharpens as she continues. "But as you wish. I'm not into talking right now, anyway. My mind is gonna burst! See you later!" 


You hear a click and the device goes off. You whisper a curse. A moody assistant software is exactly what you need right now. 


With a sigh you resume your passage through the canyon.