Xenoarchaeology class
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The red monolith looms over you. A sudden breeze wafts across your face. You hear voices in a distance, whispers, words beyond recognition. There are so many of them. They want to tell you something very important. The world around you vanishes, replaced by darkness sprinkled with distant lights. Stars. Howling of wind. Without seeing it, you touch the monolith's surface.


A vague memory rises in your mind. It hurts. You try to fight it back, hide it under the stack of the passed years, but it's there, undeniable, fresh, real. It feels uncomfortable. You struggle until you are out of mental strength and, finally, you give in and face it...


You are in a xenoarchaeology class. A comfortable room with old-fashioned 
wooden desks and wide windows behind which snow is falling on the distant ground, hiding the neighboring towers of the university. You pretended to participate in an advanced training for your job as a pilot but the truth is you wanted to meet her again. Mary Harper. The teacher.


You made acquaintance with Ms. Harper two weeks ago as her team chartered your ship for a flight to an excavation site on BZ-17. Since then, you could not stop thinking about her. 


Not that you had a chance with her. Mary is out of your ligue. Smart and beautiful. A professor at thirty. Probably surrounded by fans and admirers. She barely noticed you during the expedition. Yet you couldn't  help but enlist in her class to see her again.


The lesson is some abstract excursion in the history of archaeology. Very sophisticated and very boring. Your focus is not on listening, anyway. You look at Mary. Elegant, gracile, with long black hair falling down to her left shoulder, smartness in her brown eyes. Slightly taller than you. She resembles the heroine in the "Goddess of Space" cartoon.  


"Why are you smiling, Mr. Novak," she asks suddenly, frowning. You turn pale...



The memory fades. The world appears again around you. You find yourself standing in front of the monolith.


You hear Alisa's call. "Karl. Karl? Are you alright?"


Did Alisa feel it, too? Did she see what you saw? You certainly hope not.


"I'm ok," you respond. "We must go on."


"For a while I thought you'd fainted."


"Nothing to worry about," you say evasively.


You don't want to tell her about Mary but you know that you're on the right path. She was here. She interacted with the monolith in the same way you did. The monolith was the cause of her condition.


"I need to find more of those things. They are the key for my investigation."


Alisa doesn't seem surprised. "As you say, dear. I'm sticking with you."


As you turn and walk away from the red structure, Alisa manages to stay quiet for ninety-five seconds. A record. Then she breaks the silence.


"This professor lady must mean a lot to you, then."
