Memory of the mental hospital
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The memory is of recent events which just precede your arrival on Phaeton. You see yourself in a clean room of a mental hospital.


The room is lit. White tiles. Flowers in vases. The nurses attend their business. Talk quietly. Pretend not to listen.


Mary sits in a wheelchair, looking at you. Through you. No recognition in her eyes. She wears a cyan overall. Slippers. In her hands - a toy dog in a red space suit. Cosmodog.
You brought it hoping it will trigger something. A memory. A sign of awareness. But she just sits there, unreachable as she always was, but in a different way.


She was found by security drones on Lydia, the northern continent of Phaeton, in the infamous valley around Lydport. Unconscious. Dehydrated. Demented. On behalf of the rector of AIV, the Fleet organized her evacuation. She was brought to Vera. The rector asked you to pay a visit. You came with the next possible jump window.


You talk to Mary for a week. Remind her on your lectures, the expeditions, the excavation sites. Recall the Cosmodog story. Nothing helps. She just sits there. Mindless. Absent.


Mary's helplessness and that of yours drive you crazy. You start reading about her research. Speak with her colleagues. Inspect recent news from Phaeton. Your investigation leads you to a surprising conclusion. Mary's case is not unique. The Star Union considered Phaeton an off-limit planet and put it under quarantine due to its influence on human minds. A struggling but self-sustaining colony in the past, the city of Lydport lost all its population to mysterious epidemics of dementia and suicides in the recent years.


But according to her journal, Mary was not a victim like all the others. Her condition was a result of a voluntary action. She was behind something big. Abandoned by her previous supporters at AIV she continued the research on her own. Flew to Phaeton. Must have found something there.


At your seventh night in the hospital you have a dream. A sunset on an alien world. A big red structure standing out on the horizon, throwing a long shadow over the plain field. And Mary's voice calling your name. It might be the torturing feeling of uselessness and helplessness that triggers the idea in your mind. Mary is still out there. She waits for you on Phaeton. You will go there and find her. Join her.


You follow her, as you always have.
