Women
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"It was the letter, wasn't it?" Alisa asks cautiously as you awake, a grim expression on your face. "The memory. It was about the farewell note?"


It is Alisa's first phrase after your last talk. You seem to have offended her. Still, you don't want to talk about the letter. "Hmm," you mutter evasively.


Alisa sounds like an interrogator as she asks, "have you ever met afterwards?"


You shrug. "No, of course not. Mary clearly stated that it was not what she wanted."


"I understand," Alisa responds in a voice that clearly contradicts her statement. You sigh. She is in a fighting mood.


The AI confirms your suspicion by saying, "Tell me, Karl, what do you know about women?"


"Obviously, not enough. But you will teach me," you say wryly.


"I will," she agrees, without noticing the irony in your answer. "First of all, dear, women are passive. A woman will never make the first step."


You shake your head. "Come on. Which century were you built in? 20th? What you say is a cliche from that time."


Alisa's accent intensifies together with her agitation. "Don't get me wrong, Karl. You may mistake passivity for a weakness but, in fact, it is a virtue of patience. Women don't just chase random opportunities, following their instincts, blind and stubborn, like men do. Instead, women wait. They wait until they get enough alternatives. And then they choose the best one of them. Rationally. This is a strength you guys should envy us for. Even if the waiting turns painful and takes ways too long." 


Her last words sound like an accusation. Does she just feel bad for Mary? Or is there something more? 


"Okay, okay." You raise your hands wearily. "I got you. What I should have done is to buy a white stallion and a shining armor, ride to the AIV and get Mary out of there, preventing her from accomplishing a scientific breakthrough and becoming famous."


"At least, you should've provided her this alternative! Should've given her the choice which she never had! Your whole life could've turned different, you fool!"


You stiffen as her words let blood rush to your head. Enraged, you clench the fists and open your mouth to say something that would destroy Alisa's argument and prove you right, but nothing crosses your mind. After a while you relax and breath out. 


"Alisa," you say. "I called you a soulless machine before. My apologies. I was wrong. You are the most emotionally unstable person I ever met in my life."