Memory of Mary's leave
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alisa starts to understand the importance of memories given to you by the whispering voices. Her perpetual chatter pauses as you walk towards the next towering red structure. The AI seems brooding over something. The only remark she makes before you touch the cold stone is "Good Luck!" It is as if she was worried about you.


The memory is a painful one. It is the day of Mary's return to Vera. You always knew your time wouldn't last forever. Mary's practical work on the excavation site was finished and her presence was required at the AIV. You insisted to transport her to the orbital shuttle port in your ship.


Mary is silent. She doesn't look like she slept last night. You do not speak much during the flight. You instinctively know that something is about to come to an end.


Sitting in the pilot chair you check your feelings. You would do everything to stop her, to keep her here with you. You could tell her. Tell her everything. Ask her to stay. But do you have the right to do so? You sigh. Mary is one of the brightest minds in the world. She works on things you cannot even imagine to understand. A casual remark of her is often more worth than your graduation thesis was. She is so far above, out of reach, a star in the center of the Universe. It is impossible. You cannot sentence her to the exile at the edge of the known world. You cannot offer enough to a woman like her. It would be unfair.


The shuttle waits. Mary hugs you at the point of departure, avoiding your look.


"I'll write," she says. You nod. As she walks toward the shuttle, the urge to do something, to stop her becomes unbearable.


"Mary," you call. She turns sharply as if waiting for it. Stay, you think. I want to spend the rest of my life with you. I love you, Mary. I cannot live without you. Meeting you was the best thing that ever happened to me. Stay!


"I've named the ship Cosmodog," is all you say, putting on a stupid fake smile.


She returns the smile. Her eyes glisten. She takes a breath as if to say something, stands silent for a second, then whirls around and strides through the shuttle door.



The voices withdraw, become silent hisses and disappear. The currents of darkness around you fall and you blink away the rests of the vision. Alisa breaks the silence to give you her opinion of you.


"Idiot!" she spits out and peaks your wrist with the needle. 


The insult irritates you. "Stop doing it! Leave me alone!"


"Darling, she sent you SIGNALS! Tons of signals. You missed them all, you damn idiot! Why didn't you stop her? Sometimes, a woman needs a little nudge in the right direction."


You feel the anger rising in you. "Signals? Really!? You want to lecture me? You are a malfunctioning device that has not the slightest clue about human feelings. I'm embarrassed to even having this discussion with you! You are a soulless machine, a better calculator! You know NOTHING about things such as love and responsibility! Nothing at all!"


After your outburst is finally over, you take a deep breath. What was that!? You totally lost it. You expect Alisa to comment on your weakness in her usual way but, as she replies, her tone is different. It sounds calm and... sad.


"You're right. I don't know anything about love. I'm just a machine. We should go on, shouldn't we, Karl?"