HINTS: OBSTACLES AND TOOLS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
You will encounter many obstacles in the game world.
Examples are rivers and lakes, dense vegetation, rocks, trees, poison and snow.
If you cannot advance because of an obstacle, retreat and search for an adequate tool to overcome the obstacle.
Look out for green military chests. They usually hold valuable tools.


Some key areas are locked out by energy barriers.
The only way to deactivate such a barrier is to increase your knowledge about the game world.
You do so by collecting infobits, infobytes and infobanks.
An infobyte is worth five infobits. An infobank is worth five infobytes or twenty five infobits.
You can find out how many infobits you need by running into a barrier.
A message will tell you the costs of deactivation. There are 6000 infobits in total.


Some obstacles only seem impervious. The game contains 120 secret areas.
Look out for telltale signs to find hidden entrances.
It can be a gap in a fence, a cave, a passage between trees etc.


Some areas are filled with land mines. If you step on one, it will explode and you will take damage.
Look out for warning signs to estimate mine locations. You can find a tool that will help you to detect mines.
You can find control centers to deactivate mine fields completely.


Some areas are polluted with radiation. You will take damage if you enter a radioactive field.
You can find a tool in the game that will help you to avoid polluted fields.
Another tool will protect you from radiation completely.


Some areas are poisoned. If you step in a poison pool, you will die in three turns,
unless you reach a decontamination pool.
There is an antidote somewhere in the game world that will make you immune to poison.


You will freeze in snow regions. Your constitution will suffer from cold, similarly to thirst and hunger.
You will never die from cold, but your hit points will drop until only one single point is left.
Cold is displayed as a white section in the hit points bar.
When you warm up, the hit points lost to cold will be restored.
You can find warm clothes that will protect you from cold.


You do not freeze while in a vehicle.


You will encounter a giant snow worm. If it catches you while walking on snow, it will devour you.
The worm needs some time to locate you. Make sure you never leave secure areas for more than three turns.
There are ways to distract the worm, allowing you to walk on snow for longer distances before it can locate you.


There are teleports scattered around the game world. Most are indicated by red gates, others are invisible.
Each teleport transfers you to a specific location.
If you see an unreachable item, chances are there is a teleport nearby that will bring you there.


Some doors are locked. You will need key cards to open them.
