M. Harper: New journal
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Strange. Mary never told you about this, but you perceive her memory as if it was your own.



<font:speech> "Heavy rain slaps the moist leaves like thousand whips
and the birches struggle to hold their branches under the weight of water.


The illusion of isolation is perfect.


Even the dull sound of thunder seems to reach me from another world.


I am caught in a thin layer between the foggy park soil and the dark gray sky,
standing with open arms, the hair sticking to my face.


Five old-fashioned paper notebooks are lying scattered around my feet - open, helpless, eaten by rain, the work of two years.
They contain nonsense.


The Scientific Congress would disagree.
My presentation yesterday was a big success.
The audience applauded, my inbox was filled with praise by established scientists
and an article in today's 'Space' titled me 'Darwin on a bigger scale'.


The rector of AIV called in the morning and said that 'Evolution of Information' had chances to become
the most significant work in the history of the university.


I should have been proud of myself. 


I probably was.


I decided to reward myself with a walk in the park. On my way there the lightning struck.


Suddenly, the world reduced itself to a little sphere bordered by fog, rain and the dark blanket of an angry sky.


The force of nature was impressive and frightening.


And then a thought struck me like another lightning.
The flaw in my theory stood out so obvious, it was just embarrassing.
The world seems small in a thunderstorm, and so was the world in my model.
Not simple and elegant, but reduced and diminished.


I have pretended to expand horizons while I was merely peeking at them through the wall of rain.
My work described the happenings in the past, but the truly relevant question is about the future.


Evolution of information has not just happen, it happened and will continue to happen with a PURPOSE. A goal.


I took my notebooks out of the backpack, one by one, and dropped them to the ground.
Wet pages shone in the mud like poisonous mushrooms.


I had no pity for them.


The rain did a good job.
It washed away wrong ideas from both, the notebooks and my tired mind.
I spread my arms and thanked the thunderstorm.


It is time to begin anew.
Today, I am starting a new journal." <font:narration>