Excerpt from the Chief Archaeologist's Log
-------------------------------------------------------
Expedition day 324


The base is constructed from a material that is unknown to us and is impenetrable... probably.
We will never know since the structure is under the protection of cultural heritage according to the Star Union law.
Not even a scratch is allowed.


I can only imagine which secrets are hidden behind these slick walls.


It's frustrating. A year has passed since the start of the expedition and we still merely scratch on the surface of this alien civilization.
Literally.



Expedition day 327


I heard disturbing rumors about cases of suicides near some of the local monoliths. Horace's and Jane's school was even suspended for a week.
What caused the suicides? A cult? A mass hysteria? Or is there a relation to our structure?
Talked to Maya about it. She just kissed me and told me not to worry too much.



Expedition day 335


Got the monthly results from the AI. Very interesting. There are traces of signals between the monoliths and the base.


Bad news from the site team. Three of my men got missing. Not sure if their disappearance is related to the recent events.
Search party is looking for them.


School closed again. One of the teachers had been found dead near a monolith. Horace does not mind, but Jane is bored and asks questions
I have no answers for.



Expedition day 341


Jesus, it is a full-blown epidemic! People are going mad near these monoliths. The ones who do not kill themselves, lose their minds.


Had a huge fight with an SUF regulator. If we could blow a hole through the wall of this base, we could find an explanation for the situation.
But he is too stubborn to violate his orders.


Maya was sent to investigate a case near one of the monoliths.
Tried to talk her out of it, but she just smiled and said I'm the only one who is able to make her mad.


I'm afraid. For my wife and for my children.



Expedition day 345


Horace is missing. Pausing the work to search for him. Maya does not know yet. God, safe him, safe him, safe him.



Expedition day 346


Maya is dead.



Expedition day 348


They found Horace. Alive. But not conscious. My boy. My dear boy.



Expedition day 349


Jane went missing. I had locked the door to her room, but she escaped through the window. What should I do?



Expedition day 351


To hell with the regulator! I'll take the driller and break into the base. I have to help them, somehow. I have to do something.



Expedition day 353


It's futile. The driller broke after two days of work and the hole is marginal. I found a device in the rubble. Seems to be a digital
plan for the base. But it is useless without the hardware.


I failed. As archaeologist. As husband and as father. I lost them all. Could not protect them...


I will end it. Not because of those things. No.
Just because there is no reason for me to live anymore. All will end tomorrow.



Expedition day 354


Thank God!!! Jane has been found, alive and well. We are taking Horace and leaving the hell out of here.


[The log ends here.]