M. Harper: Solution
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You read in some science-fiction novel about a technology that allows a person to perceive everything what 
another person is sensing: sound, visuals, smells etc. That is how it feels like when another of Mary's memories
closes in around you.



<font:speech> "I was listening to the recent news report from Phaeton when I suddenly got the last piece of the puzzle.


Phaeton is an off-limit planet with a big interest for xenoarchaeologists as it hosts impressive alien artifacts.


Red monoliths are scattered around a valley and are said to be the cause for insanity,
hallucinations and suicides among colonists.


AIV undertook excavation attempts until a team of archaeologists went lunatic.
Since then, news of mass murders and madness epidemics in the valley made regular rounds around the media.
The last report triggered a hypothesis in my mind.


An intelligent being is difficult to define since the definition depends on a perspective.
From outside, it is defined by the being's self-awareness and its ability to learn.
But from the perspective of the being itself its intelligence includes the perception of the whole Universe,
a complete aspect of the world.


The reality is not objective.


The reality of a color blind person is different from the reality of someone who is thumb.
The god of two rival soccer teams praying for victory cannot be the same entity
even if both refer to him by the same name.


The only way to keep the definition of reality coherent
is admitting its dependency on a concrete perception and hence its plurality.


Is there a sound of a falling tree if no one is there to listen?
My definition requires a negative answer.


Does the world end after the observer dies?
This is certainly true for the version of the world that came into existence with the birth of the same observer.


An unsatisfying conclusion.


If the ultimate goal of the Universe is its self-exploration, subjectivity of reality is a problem.


One does not play tennis with hundred balls.


No, the only way to understand reality is to claim back its objectivity.
And considering the above it can be done only by one means.


Unification of intelligence." <font:narration>