Notes of the archaeologist Anna Weinberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day 11


Dear god, he stepped in a trap! I heard something snap and then a piercing scream just like a shrill whistling of a firework rocket. Pinky jerked around for a while, breaking the reed stems and screaming in pain, trying to escape, then his screams turned to a thin whining. I cannot see him from the road but I can feel his suffering. The poor creature is desperate. So small, so helpless. I need to help him.


I will go into the thicket and release him. He won't attack me. He is just a baby. We are friends. You are my friend, Pinky, is it right? Like Snowflake was.


Snowflake's story didn't end well. He was my best friend for a month. We were inseparable. Then, one day, me and my brother went fishing. When I took the rod from the shed, Snowflake turned wild. The lengthy item triggered something hidden in his mind and he jumped at me with a loud barking. His teeth clutched at my leg and I felt sharp pain. Blood soaked my jeans. I screamed and fell. My brother ran to my help, he hit Snowflake with his rod, again and again, until the dog released the grip and fled. Next day my brother shot him. 


Animals are wild and unpredictable by their nature. A vision of Maria's body came to my mind. A pigrat caught her by surprise. It tore her in half with one bite, then ate her left arm and the innards. The pigrat left her there after it stilled its hunger. When she was found, Maria had a peaceful expression on her face. She never noticed the attack.


Pinky is small but he is a predator. He is angry and desperate. What will he do if I release him? Will he let me go or attack me? The risk is too high. The voices in the wind advise me to go on, to leave this place.


But I cannot ignore his cries. Pinky is a living being. He has a name. We have only each other in this forsaken place. We are comrades. We both are lost and abandoned by our fellows. I will not leave him behind.


This might be my last record. God help me.
