Notes of the archaeologist Anna Weinberg
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day 15


Alone. 


All alone in an empty world. I'm walking without direction, without purpose - empty minded and inert, not even trying to suppress the voices in the wind any more.


Pigrats finally got me two days ago. The dull sun was about to sink into the reeds as I heard the sounds of their feet in the vegetation. Two of them jumped out on the road in front of me. Shapes as big as elephants, their eyes glowing red. A terrifying sight. I turned back and saw another pair of pink creatures standing out in the flat landscape behind me. At least five more of them flashed through the stems on both sides of the road. I was surrounded.


Then Pinky limped to my side. The bandage on his left forepaw still hindered his movement but the wound didn't seem to hurt much any more. He came to a halt in the spot between me and the other pigrats and howled in the direction of his specimen. Joy and hope were in this howl.


In a second, the predators forgot about me and turned they round skulls towards Pinky. One of them answered his call. The little pigrat walked slowly in the direction of the nearest couple who, too, made some steps towards him. Soon Pinky was surrounded by the whole pack, being licked, rubbed and purred at. 


After the welcoming ceremony, the animals started to withdraw. One by one, they disappeared in the darkness until Pinky was the only one remaining on the road. He looked at me, rose at his hindpaws and howled in a thin voice. The bandage on his left forepaw made it look like a farewell waving. Then he turned and became one with the darkness. I was left alone.


I changed my mind. I will not ignore the voices any more. They scare me but a much scarier thing is loneliness. I spent half a month without contact to a human being and my only companion left me. He finally found his pack. 


I will follow the wind. I will give in to the call. Will let it direct me. At the end of the road, they wait for me. My family. My pack.
