Don't rush! The game will stand still unless you execute an action.


Press ENTER to skip a turn without moving. It can be useful when you want to hide or wait for an enemy to come closer.


Each enemy type has its own strengths and weaknesses. Study them to improve your chances.


Jars with Soul Essence permanently increase your maximal hit points. Get as many Soul Essences as you can find.


Medkits fill up your hit points completely. Use them wisely. There is a limited number of medkits in the game.


Your progress is retained when you die. Killed enemies stay dead. Found tools remain in your inventory.


Lack of food or water will deplete your constitution. Keep track of your hunger and thirst.


Hunger and thirst will reduce your life points with every turn until only one point remains.


Find rations to still hunger. Approach water to drink.


If you are hungry AND thirsty, you will lose TWO hit points with every move.


You can increase your food and water capacity. Keep your eyes open for bottles and food compartments.


Food and water reserves do not deplete if you are inside a vehicle.


Cars are armored and protect you from enemy attacks. Their armor can be improved by finding armor plates.


You can refuel a car with a gas canister. Walk on foot into a gas station to get one.


Fuel depletes slower when you drive on roads.


Sometimes stealth is a better option. Hide in high grass, move at night, or stay behind enemy's backs.


Stay out of enemy's sight fields.


An alerted enemy will give up the chase if you manage to stay out of its sight for a while.


The sight field of the most enemies is reduced at night.


You can hide in high grass. By doing so, only adjacent enemies will sense you.


Hiding in high grass is the best way to confront an artillery unit.


Backstabbing an enemy doubles the damage.


Many enemies are assigned patrol zones. Try to guess them. An enemy is not able to leave its patrol zone.


Avoid being surrounded by enemies.


Each weapon is useful. Figure out which enemy is prone against which weapon.


An enemy can hold an item. It will drop upon the enemy's destruction.


You can escape slower enemies. When in doubt, flee!


Make finding weapons your first priority.


There are ways to increase the ammunition capacity for each weapon.


You want to get to an island? Find a way to cross water.


The game contains 120 secrets. Look out for subtle signs to find hidden entrances.


Stepped on a land mine? Watch out for warning signs. Find a way to detect or deactivate mines.


Radiation is deadly. Find a way to detect it or protect yourself from it.


Don't step into poison unless you found an antidote or a decontamination pool is nearby.


Freezing damages your constitution. Find some warm clothes or stay in a car.


Never mess with a snow worm. Stay on solid terrain to avoid it. Don't walk on snow for too long.


Gradually unlock teleports in the starting area. They provide shortcuts.


Don't step into the monolith's electricity fields.


Find map pieces and inspect your map to plan your journey.


Note down locations of items you might need later.