Memory of receiving Cosmodog
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Maybe, you should take a break, Karl", Alisa says anxiously as you approach the next monolith. "Those things are not good for you. Last time I thought I'd lost you."


"I'm fine," you say. 


Alisa is not convinced. "What are you trying to achieve by all this, dear? You won't bring her back by living through all these memories again."


"I don't want to bring her back," you respond. It is the truth. You stride toward the monolith.


"Okay, okay, no need to listen to me," Alisa drawls sarcastically. "I'm just your PERSONAL ADVISER, all right. Go on, ruin yourself, I don't care." Her voice softens. "Just take care, ok?"



The memory is a rollercoaster of emotions, in the same way like the actual event was. You are in the hotel room on Athena, waiting for the weeklong conference to finish. You feel broken and empty, useless nuisance inbetween the flights. Time just doesn't want to pass. 


It's been four days since you'd last met Mary. And what a meeting that was! Somehow, you managed to ask her for a date. You had no idea what drove into you and you regretted your improvised suggestion immediately after you'd spoken it out. What are you doing, man!? A country fair? That's your offer to her? Exactly the thing a woman like her needed. Idiot! 


You could not believe your ears as Mary accepted it. Did she actually get the meaning of it? Or did she just want to beat the time inbetween the seminars? You could not tell and decided not to think of it too much about it.


The evening was fantastic. You talked about random things. Mary smiled at your funny stories. She won at the clay target shooting and you showed off your piloting skills at the arcade. You discussed the influence of super light speed travelling on the society and argued about the name of the space dog from the cartoon of your childhood. You are quite sure you won the latter argument. As she took leave, Mary gave you a hug and wished you good night. 


You did not hear of her since.



You are desperate and clueless. Why doesn't she respond? Then again, why don't you? For the tenth time you grab the communicator and throw it back again. You don't dare. She is a busy woman, speaking at a scientific conference. She doesn't have time for futile chitchat. Anyway, what would you tell her? You pace up and down, restless, not able to focus on anything and not daring to leave the hotel room and risking to miss a call. She already forgot everything, you say to yourself. She has to think about more important things.


There is a knock on your door. You stop dead in your tracks, then go and open the door. A courier stands there, smiling.


"I've got a package for your child," she says and passes you a toy dog wearing a red space suit and a transparent bubble helmet with a small note attached to it. "I know this one. It's the dog from the cartoon. I loved him as a child. What was his name again?"


You run over the note and a wave of happiness floods you. She did not forget, after all. And she was right about the name. Of course she was.


You laugh happily. 


"The name is Cosmodog," you say to the courier. "I love him, too!"