Memory of father's heroism
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Another memory closes in upon you...


Today, you feel like the coolest boy in the school. 
The feeling is unfamiliar but you could get used to it. 
You came late to class but the teacher Stevenson, called 'The Inquisitor', kept his usual remarks to himself. 
Maybe, he read the last issue of 'The Traveller' already.


You touch the folded newspaper page in you pocket.


Less than twenty hours ago an armada under the command of General Novak (also known as Dad)
broke through the enemy defence ring in the orbit of Thalia Prime and ended the two-years-old siege 
of the fourth biggest Star Union colony. 
That is the main headline in the newspapers. Dad is fine. The First Port City is preparing the welcoming ceremony. 
People are dancing in the streets. The war is over.


Little boys tend to glorify their fathers. In your case it is justified. You are the son of a real hero.


You almost jump out of your skin as something drops heavily on your desk. 


A booklet. 


While you daydreamed, Stevenson went on with handing out the results of the last astronomy exam. 


Gosh, the exam results! You absolutely forgot about them.


The pages are scarred by red ink. 
Many of your answers are struck through with fat lines. 
"Nonsense!", "Not at all!" and "Wrong, wrong, wrong!" are only some of Stevenson's remarks. 
The last page ends with a crushing "53 out of 100" and the statement: 
"Karl is recommended to visit a supporting astronomy course."


You never were the best student in class. It is not your first less-than-average result. But today is not a usual day. 


Today, you feel ashamed.


...



After the class, your friend Mick approaches you and hits you with his backpack.


<font:speech> "I got 36 out of 100. You?" <font:narration>


<font:speech> "53" <font:narration>


<font:speech> "Well, that means supporting course for us both, huh?" <font:narration>


He notices the newspaper page in your hand. 


<font:speech> "What do you have there?" <font:narration>


<font:speech> "Nothing," <font:narration>


You scrunch up the page and throw the paper ball toward the trash bin.


It jumps off the edge, hits it again, dances on it for a second and finally tilts down and falls into the bin. Score! 


You frown.


What a success. Dad will be really impressed.