Memory of the mental hospital
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The memory is of recent events which just precede your arrival on Phaeton. You see yourself in a clean room of a mental hospital.


The room is lit. White tiles. Flowers in vases. The nurses attend their business. Talk quietly. Pretend not to listen.


Mary sits in a wheelchair, looking at you. Through you. No recognition in her eyes. She wears a cyan overall. Slippers. In her hands - a toy dog in a red space suit. 


Cosmodog.


You brought it with you, hoping it would trigger something. A memory. A sign of awareness. But she just sits there, unreachable as she always was, just in a different way.


She was found on Lydia, the northern continent of Phaeton, in the infamous valley around Lydport. Unconscious. Dehydrated. Demented. On request of the AIV rector, the Fleet organized her evacuation. She was brought to Vera. The rector notified you. You came with the next possible jump window.


You talked to Mary for a week. Reminded her on your relation: the lectures, the expeditions, the excavation sites. Brought up the Cosmodog story. Nothing helped. She just sat there. Mindless. Absent.


The helplessness drove you crazy. You started reading about her work. Spoke with her colleagues. Researched news from Phaeton. Your investigation led you to a surprising conclusion. Mary's case had not been unique. The Star Union considered Phaeton an off-limit planet and had put it under quarantine due to its influence on human minds. A struggling but self-sustaining colony in the past, the city of Lydport had lost all its population to mysterious epidemics of dementia and suicides in the recent years.


But according to her journal, Mary had not been a victim, like all the others. Her condition was a result of a voluntary action. She had been behind something big. Abandoned by her supporters at AIV she had continued the research on her own. Had flown to Phaeton. Must had found something there.


...



It is your seventh night in the hospital when you have a dream. A sunset on an alien world. A big red structure standing out on the horizon, throwing a long shadow over the plain field. And Mary's crying voice calling your name. It might be the torturing feeling of uselessness and helplessness that triggers the idea in your mind but you cannot let it go. You are certain - a part of Mary is still out there. She waits for you on Phaeton. You will go there and find her. Join her.


You follow her, as you always have.