The last star
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The memory is dark. Dad's funeral marks the low of your life. Three years after Mary's farewell note, you step on the clammy soil, holding an edge of the coffin, together with three SUF officers. Your father, a hero and a guide, was not invincible, after all. Illness achieved what his enemies could not have had. You knew beforehand there is no hope, but his death comes as a shock, nevertheless.


An even bigger shock, though, strikes you later this day, as you go through father's correspondence. Most of the professional messages are encrypted and marked as restricted but you can read some of his private conversations. What they contain is unbelievable. Negotiations with lawyers, angry accusations on the part of the bereaved, mentioning of certain incidents, templates for speeches written by ghostwriters. Your father's monument crumbles under the shiny facade with every read document. His heroism, built up in your mind for decades, shatters in an instant under the weight of reality. As every general, your father used to coerce soldiers to deadly campaigns, he ordered killings of enemies, commanded executions. And he made mistakes that costed many lifes. Some of them could be called war crimes. 


The truth leaves an empty spot in your soul, where admiration once was. It is almost unbearable. You log off from the terminal and leave the planet on the same day. You will never return.



"Not too pleasant, he?" Alisa asks cautiously, noticing your dark mood. You hesitate to answer. "Must have been a hard time for you", she inquieres. "First Mary, then your father." The interrogation is inappropriate but you are not irritated by the AI. After seven years of silence it feels good to talk to someone who cares. You decide to try to explain her what you feel.


"You know, one day the last star will burn out all its fuel and dim. The Universe will become dark. You will still be able to fly through it, I guess, but what would be the point if there would be no stars around? No light. No warmth. Nothing to look forward to. No direction and no purpose. No meaning. Only darkness." You shake your head. "That's what I feel. Darkness. Everything what I believed in vanishes, shrouded by it, or turns out to be a mere optical illusion, a distorted reflection of something ugly and shapeless in the dimming light that once shone bright. There is darkness inside of me, and I do not know how to disperse it or whether I still want to." 


You halt, realizing that it was the longest speech you gave in the last years, and wonder at the lack of discomfort in spite of your words. It feels good to have talked about your feelings. "Any smart remarks," you say, feigning sarcasm.


"Yes", Alisa agrees readily. "What you want to say is that you are searching for those last star that still burns."


"It's not really..."


"And this star is Mary," Alisa cuts in.


"I'm not saying..."


"You know," she interrupts again. "Stars might be dying or be untraceable. But, if you need light and warmth, I heard that long ago humans had learned to make fire on their own."


You smile, understanding where this is leading. "Thanks for the warm words, Alisa. That was enlightning."


She ignores the puns. "No problem, dear. That's what friends are for."