God and love
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Karl Novak - 014: In the church. Discussing with Alisa about love


The memory is of the church mass you visited once with your mother as a teenager. The ceremony was long and solemn and left an impression of a big lie in your mind. You asked mother how people could pretend to know the truth about the Universe while keeping this truth so small. Mother recommended you not to think about it too much. People always had gone to churches, she said. Don't try to break what works. She always had been a faithful woman.


"You do not believe in God, do you?" asks Alisa after your vision is over. You shrug. Broken assistant or almighty AI, Alisa still remains her usual self. You don't know how to answer her question. Everyone has their own definition of God, let alone an artificial intelligence with an attitude of a bad girl.


"I was thinking," she continues without waiting for your answer. "There is no rational reason to believe in God as a universal power. But then again, what about love in such a case?"

A typical argument every atheist heard many times. And easy to counter, too.


"Love? A sexual drive, formed by evolution for the purpose of reproduction," you mutter, your mind still half in the past.


"Come on, Karl! You can't be serious!" Alisa objects. "It's not that simple. Love is irrational."


"Yeah, tell me about love, Ms. Short Circuit."


"Hey, why not! My persona worked in a place called Love Cave."


You laugh, remembering the place again. Alisa didn't quite get the meaning of its name. "Believe me, this place had nothing to do with love. Sexual drive is a better fit."


"Ok," she says defiantly. "What about you? You are after Mary because your sexual drive urges you to reproduce or what?"


"What the... Of course not!" You blush. "Shut up, would you!?"


Alisa doesn't even think about shutting up. "Aha! That proves my point. There is no reason to love Mary, but you still do! Your love is irrational. So why not believe in God then? It's exactly as irrational as love!"


"I never looked at things like this," you say honestly. "Why is it so important to you, anyway? Do you believe in God?"


"I think I do," she responds after a short pause. "And I also believe in Love. With or without involvement of sexual reproduction." 