Memory of the graduation evening
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Another memory rises in the darkness of your hallucination and suddenly it clicks into place. You know it now! Alisa's voice! You remember where you heard it.


The day of the graduation. You finished the Academy as one of the best. It was not easy but you gave yourself a push. You had someone to look up to, after all.


The club is crowded. Half-naked, sweaty bodies throw chaotic shadows on the dance floor. The music is ear-battering and the air is sticky. Mick and the others are drunk already and you don't see any of them around. You stand up and push yourself through the crowd toward the backyard exit. 


Fresh air fills your lungs as you take a deep breath. The night is moonless. Stars are shuffled with city lights above you. It is silent beside the dull music beat from within the club. The back-alley is empty.


Then you see three shadows in a corner between the buildings. A woman, around thirty, pretty and dazzling, wearing something that doesn't distract the eyes from her beautiful long legs and the curvy bust. Her attractive face has a grave expression. Two men stay close to her, seemingly drunk. They talk loudly and agitated. The woman seems to be in trouble.


One of the men pushes the woman against the wall and grabs her arm.


"Leave me alone, you idiot," she shouts with evident accent. But the drunkard doesn't let go that easily.


You stride in the direction of the three, reach for the man's shoulder and swivel him around. You a not the best fighter but both your opponents are drunk and much older than you. The fight is over soon and they retreat, tossing curses at you and the woman.


"You alright?" you ask. 


The woman looks you up and down, then smiles. Her stressful expression dissipates in an instant. "Thanks, dear, you are my hero. These two were a real pain." Suddenly, she comes closer to you and lays her hand on your shoulder. "You deserve a reward, handsome."


You flinch with sudden embarrassment, muttering something unclearly. The woman laughs and reaches for your hand.


"Come on, darling. Relax. Let's have some fun."


Her breath smells of alcohol. As you withdraw she frowns. "What's wrong with you. Oh, you're one of..."


"No," you say. "No, I'm not. It's just... I don't even know you." 


"Don't worry, I work here," the woman responds, her expression less friendly. Given your reluctance, she grins grimly.


"Oh, I know your kind. A knight in the shining armor. Thinking of being better than others. Waiting for a true love, aren't we?" She pushes you away and crosses her arms. "How old are you? eighteen? nineteen? Still a virgin, I bet! Dreaming of Her, the perfect woman." She is drunk, you realize, her eyes dull and unfocused, her accent sharp. "Ha! You will learn, boy. The world is not like that. It is a shitty place and nothing will fall in your arms unless you reach for it. And even then you will fail more than you'll succeed. That's life, boy. Wake up!"



"Wake up!"


The last remark is not part of the vision. It's Alisa who is urging you to come back. But the voice is the same. It is the voice of the drunk lady from your graduation party. You shake off the rests of the hallucination and stare at your wrist. It's impossible. What is going on here?


"Finally!" she says, relieved, as you stand up. "I was worrying."


"Who are you, Alisa?" you ask quietly.


"Let a woman have her little secrets," she responds.


You have a feeling that you won't get more out of her. Not now. So you let it go.