A cry for help
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is the purpose of these monoliths? What do they try to tell you? Will you end up like all those other poor souls whose mortal remains lay scattered around the ancient red towers? Did they all die? Or are they still here, waiting for you, whispering to you, calling you?


The memory is of your grandmother. It triggers warm and cozy feelings in you. Grandma reads you a book while you lie in your bed, cover pulled up to the chin. It is a story about a group of people who discovered an uninhabited island while flying on a hot air balloon. The plot is adventurous and suspenseful. The island is full of mysteries and dangers. It is a fascinating place. But the biggest fascination for your young mind are the people who discovered this place. They are smart and educated. They know many things. They have an answer to every question, not like people in real life. When you grow up, you want to become like them.


Grandma's voice vibrates, changes its timbre, again and again. It becomes louder, then quieter, departs and comes closer, surrounds you. It's many voices now. They whirl around you, whisper in your ears. You grew up, they say. But you did not become like those adventurers. You don't know everything. You don't have answers to all questions. But we do. We know everything. We are what you search for. What Mary searched for. We are the rapture. Allow us to show you. Join us. 


They are right. You reached the target of your journey. You feel relieved and relaxed. The voices are comfortable and solaceful. Their words are the pinnacle of all your wishes and desires. They have meaning. Mary understood it. And you understand it now, too. You give in, reach for the voices, ready to join them.


Except, there is the cry again. Its peculiar sound captures your focus. It stands out and is strangely familiar. It is a female cry, quiet and desperate. A weep, thin and high-pitched, a regular sequence of silent mourning. The cry triggers something within you, an irrational, instinctive urge. It doesn't let you go.


You feel your body again, your head jerking left and right as if trying to release itself from the call. The voices become quieter and disappear. The silent weep is the last thing you hear before you find yourself lying on the ground in front of the monolith.