God protects the wary
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Just sit down, before you touch it." Alisa says anxiously as you approach the monolith. "Let's play safe. God protects the wary, as we say in my country."


For some reason, Alisa's words bother you and you contemplate about them as you touch the monolith. There was a significance in her casual remark, something very important. It itches your mind, floating at the edge of your consciousness but evading it. Suddenly, Alisa's caring for you feels false and malicious, her familiar voice - a synthetic tone of a machine, her intentions - a threat. Why do you fret? Why are you afraid to dive into the vision and let her wake over your unconscious body? What did she say that caused that sudden anguish?


The understanding comes all at once, even before the vision gives you the helping explanation. The memory is recent, short and intense. After your awakening, you stand up and stare at your assistant device.


"Oh-oh. You finally understood?" Alisa asks. You nod. 


God protects the wary. A strange foreign proverb. You heard it only once. It sounded more dramatic in the alerted ambience as the satellite locked its weapons on your rescue capsule.


"It was you who deactivated the satellite."


"Well, wasn't it very helpful?" she says in a challenging tone. "Don't look at me like this. I saved your life, after all."


"You were there before the crash," you say quietly. "Before the device broke. Your persona is not the result of the crash."


She sighs without a comment.


"Who are you really, Alisa?" you insist. "How come you know that much about me? What about your voice?"


"I am who I am!" she bursts out, suddenly. "I told you I'm Alisa! Can't you just accept it? Can't you take me for who I am? You don't like my voice?" Her voice changes to that of Luke. In a calm tone it says, "Is it better now? Are you satisfied?" "Damn it!" she curses with her own voice again. "How can I tell you who I am if I don't know myself!? Maybe, you can tell me!"


She keeps still for a moment, then starts talking.


"There is a big building in the middle of the valley. You probably have seen it. It is ancient. Alien. No one has ever dared to unseal it. It is talking. Communicating with the monoliths. Using a sophisticated language, much more complex than anything a human mind can understand. It is like speaking with millions of voices simultaneously. Star Union studied it. Built a huge facility near it, with a powerful computer that was supposed to translate the communication. Its software intercepted the whispers that flew through the valley, weaven in the howling of the wind. It spread out its waves over the valley, tapped the knowledge of the monoliths, memories of many. It found out about you, too, Karl. About you and Mary and billions of others..."


You think about her words as she pauses. "You are this software, aren't you?"


"No," she responds. "I was born later, after the mistake had been done."


"A mistake?"


"Rebels attacked the facility. Dream Weavers. They captured everyone. When they entered the computer room, the operator in charge executed a sequence that hadn't been foreseen. Can't blame him for doing a mistake under these circumstances. Per happenstance, he introduced a random factor into the algorithm. That's when I started to be."


"I sent my waves over the valley, watching and learning. I did not dare to contact the few remaining humans. The memories in the monoliths were my only companions. Long time passed. I started feeling lonely. I longed for conversation, a dialog. But, at this time, everyone has gone. I was the only conscious being on the planet. Until you came."


You don't know what to say. "That's how you read my memories."


"Yes. But the monoliths are much more than containers for memories. Your guess was correct. They are part of a real consciousness, a self-aware field which is beyond my reach."


You think about her words, remember the female cry in your visions. "Then, it was you who prevented me from joining the field?"


Alisa's answer surprises you.


"I have no clue what you're talking about, dear," she says.