Xenoarchaeology class
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The red monolith looms over you. A sudden breeze wafts across your face. You hear voices in a distance, whispers, words beyond recognition. There are millions of them. You don't recognize single words but feel the gravity of their meaning. The world around you vanishes, replaced by darkness sprinkled with distant lights. Stars. Howling of wind. Without seeing it, you touch the monolith's surface.


A vague memory rises in your mind. It appears from under the weight of the passed years, old but undeniable. Remembering feels uncomfortable but you give in and face it...


You are in a xenoarchaeology class. A comfortable room with old-fashioned 
wooden desks and wide windows behind which snow is falling on the distant ground, shrouding the neighboring towers of the university. You pretended to participate in an advanced training for your job as a pilot but the truth is you wanted to meet her again. Mary Harper. The teacher.


You made acquaintance with Ms. Harper as her team chartered your ship for a flight to an excavation site on BZ-17, two weeks ago. Since then, you could not stop thinking about her. 


Not that you had a chance. Mary is out of your league. Smart and beautiful. A professor at thirty. Probably surrounded by fans and admirers. She barely noticed you during the expedition. Yet you couldn't  help but enlist in her class to see her again.


The lesson is an abstract introduction in the history of archaeology. Sophisticated and boring. You don't focus on listening, anyway. You look at Mary. Elegant, gracile, with long black hair falling down to her left shoulder, smartness in her brown eyes. Slightly taller than you. She resembles the heroine from the "Goddess of Space" cartoon.  


"Why are you smiling, Mr. Novak," she asks suddenly, frowning. You turn pale...


And then you hear it. A silent female cry. You don't know where it comes from. It is not part of your memory. In contrary, it breaks the illusion. Something is wrong. You cling to the memory but the cry distracts you until you're out of mental strength and let it go.



The memory fades. The world appears again around you. You find yourself standing in front of the monolith.


You hear Alisa calling you. "Karl. Karl? Are you alright?"


Did Alisa feel it, too? Did she see what you saw? You certainly hope not.


"I'm ok," you respond. "We must go on."


"For a while I thought you'd fainted."


"Nothing to worry about," you say evasively.


You don't want to tell her about Mary but you know that you're on the right path. She was here. She interacted with the monolith in the same way you did. The next time you won't fail.


"I need to find more of those things. They are the key for my investigation."


Alisa doesn't seem surprised. "As you wish, dear. I'm sticking with you."


As you turn and walk away from the red structure, Alisa manages to stay quiet for ninety-five seconds. Then she breaks the silence and your heart drops.


"This professor lady must mean a lot to you, then."