Memory of Mary's leave
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alisa seems to become more and more affected by the gravity of your memories.
Her perpetual chatter pauses as you walk toward the next towering structure. 
She seems brooding over something. The only remark she makes before you touch the cold stone is "Good Luck!" 


It is as if she knew what was coming.


A painful memory. The day of Mary's return to Vera.


You always suspected that your time would not last forever. 
Now Mary's practical work on the excavation site comes to an end and her presence is required at the AIV. 
She wants to take a regular shuttle.


You insist to escort her to the orbital port.


Mary looks tired. You do not speak much during the flight.


The whole last night you sat at your desk and wrote.
You put all your feelings for her on the paper. It was not a long letter but you rewrote and rewrote it until
every single word reflected your soul.


Early in the morning, you decided that it was perfect. Then you tore the letter apart.


You have no right to slow Mary down. She is one of the brightest minds in the world. 
She works on things you cannot even imagine to understand. 
She is so far above, out of reach, a star in the center of the Universe. 
You cannot sentence her to the exile at the edge of the world. You cannot offer enough to a woman like her. 
It would be unfair. She deserves much better.


Mary gives you a hug, avoiding your look.


<font:speech> "I'll write," <font:narration> she says.


You nod. As she walks toward the shuttle, the urge to stop her becomes unbearable.


<font:speech> "Mary!" <font:narration> 


She turns around, quickly as if she'd waited for your call.


Stay, you think. I cannot live without you. Meeting you was the best thing that ever happened to me. Stay!


But you manage to pull yourself together.


<font:speech> "My new ship. I named it Cosmodog," <font:narration> is all you say, a stupid fake smile on your face.


Mary returns the smile. Her eyes glisten.
She takes a breath as if to say something, stands silent for a second, 
then whirls around and strides through the terminal door.


...



The voices withdraw and become silent hisses. 
The currents of darkness around you fall and you blink away the rests of the vision. 
Alisa does not hesitate to comment on your behaviour.


<font:speech> "Idiot!" <font:narration> she proclaims and pricks your wrist with her needle. 


The insult irritates you more than the pain. 


<font:speech> "Stop doing that!" <font:narration>


<font:speech> "Darling, she sent you SIGNALS! Tons of signals. You missed them all, you fool! 
Why didn't you stop her?!" <font:narration>


For some reason, your annoyance grows into real anger. 


<font:speech> "Signals? Really!? You want to lecture me? 
You are a malfunctioning device that has not the slightest clue about human feelings. 
I am embarrassed to even having this conversation with you!
You are a soulless machine, a better calculator! 
You know NOTHING about things such as love and responsibility! Nothing at all!" <font:narration>


After your outburst is finally over, you take a deep breath. 


What was that!? 
You totally lost it. 
You expect Alisa to comment on your weakness in her usual wry way but as she replies her voice sounds strange.
It seems placid and... sad.


<font:speech> "You're right. I don't know anything about love. 
I have no soul. Let's go, shouldn't we, Karl?" <font:narration>
