Flight over the ocean
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You wait, gazing into the darkness and listening to the whispers, but nothing happens. You look around but there is no one to be seen. You are alone. Blinded. Floating on thin air. A streak of panic lets your heart hit your ribs. You whirl, arms spread, feeling around, not finding anything to hold on. It is terrifying.


"Dad!" you call.


Immediately, a firm grip takes hold of your arm. You feel a strong hand on your shoulder. "Don't worry, you can do it," dad's voice says.


He puts your palm back on the flight stick. A feeling of safety and security overcomes you. You open the eyes and confront the view behind the cockpit. The waves of the ocean below reach to the curved horizon, their tiny foam crests still a frightening indicator of the high altitude your transporter reached, but you don't fret anymore. Dad is here. He is protecting you. Nothing can go wrong when he is around.


Carefully, you incline the flight stick and the transporter glides into a gentle curve to the left, tilting the horizon line. A sudden turbulence rocks the vessel but you manage to straighten the course and direct the transporter toward the thin coastline.


"Good job, Karl," dad laughs and pats you on the shoulder. "You'll be a great pilot one day!"


"As good as you?" you gasp, excited.


"Maybe," he says. "Maybe better. That is, if you train hard enough."


"I will!" 


You turn to see dad's face but it eludes you. 


"Focus on your tack, Karl," dad says and lays his hand over yours, moving the flight stick to turn the transporter back into the ocean. "We have a long training session in front of us."


You focus. The ocean seems endless. The waves fill the whole view and soon you don't see anything but the shimmering turquoise carpet beneath you. You fly and fly, peace in your heart, the absolute contentment. Somewhere, at the edge of your consciousness, you hear the cry again, but it is distant this time and not able to distract you. You know, you will fly forever.



That's when dad's hand clutches at your wrist, piercing fingernails in your skin. You scream in pain and drag your hand away. You spin around but dad is not there anymore. You are alone, high above the ocean. The panic is back. Blood is dripping from your injured hand. The female cry becomes louder. The transporter loses control and tilts its nose toward the waves. You grip the flight stick with both hands and pull at it but you are not strong enough. The ocean pushes the sky out of sight and spreads, spinning, all over the cockpit view. The waves grow bigger. You open the mouth but the scream does not leave your throat. You close the eyes in front of the impending collision. 



There is no impact. You open the eyes and see a red tower rising above you. You are back to reality, lying on the ground. You try to stand up and fail. Your extremities are numb. Turning your head you notice a blood stain on your left hand.


You can't believe your eyes. "You... you drugged me."


"Oh, thank God!" Alisa responds anxiously. "I thought I lost you. You fell and your pulse slowed down. I didn't know what to do. Thought you will end up like all the others. So I decided to sedate you."


"I didn't ask you for help," you growl. Doesn't she understand why you are here!?


She sounds honestly offended as she answers. "What are you talking about? You almost lost your mind! Did you forget Mary? How are you supposed to save her if you are but a mindless body!?"


You feel your fingers itching, life coming back to your limbs. Then you bark a cold laugh.


"Saving Mary?" you cough, with dark amusement. She got you wrong, completely. "I am not here to save her." With a strain you sit up. "Mary doesn't need to be saved. She is fine. You just prevented me from joining her."