Women
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Karl Novak - 012: Receiving the farewell letter. Alisa teaches Karl how to handle women


"It was the letter, wasn't it?" Alisa asks cautiously as you awake, a grim expression on your face. "The memory. It was about the farewell note?"


It is Alisa's first remark after your last talk. You really seem to have hurt her feelings. Still, you don't want to talk about the letter. You never got over it, not after seven years. "Hmm," you mutter evasively.


Alisa sounds like an interrogator as she asks, "have you ever met afterwards?"


You shrug. "No, of course not. Mary clearly stated that it was not what she wanted."


"I understand," Alisa responds in a voice that clearly contradicts her statement. You sigh. She is in a fighting mood.


The AI confirms your suspicion by saying, "Tell me, Karl, what do you know about women?"


You sigh. She won't let go. "Obviously, not enough. But you will teach me," you say wryly.


"I will," she agrees, without noticing the irony . "Lesson number one: Women are passive. You can't expect a woman to make the first step, dear."


You shake your head, indignantly. "Come on! Which century were you built in? 20th? What you say is a sexist cliche from that time."


Alisa's accent intensifies together with her agitation. "Don't get me wrong. You may mistake passivity for a weakness but, in fact, it is a virtue of patience. Women don't just chase after random opportunities, blind and stubborn, like men do. Instead, women wait. They wait until they get enough alternatives. And then they choose the best one of them. Rationally. This is a strength you guys should envy us for. Even if, sometimes, waiting turns out painful and takes way too long." Her last words sound like an accusation.


"Okay, okay." You raise your hands wearily. "I got you. What I should have done is to buy a white stallion and a shining armor, ride to the AIV and get Mary out of there, preventing her from accomplishing a scientific breakthrough and becoming famous."


"At least, you should've provided her this alternative! Should've given her the choice which she never had!"


You stiffen as her words let blood rush to your head. Enraged, you clench the fists and open your mouth to say something that would destroy Alisa's argument and prove you right, but nothing comes to your mind. After a while you relax and breathe out. 


"Alisa," you say. "I called you a soulless machine before. My apologies. I was wrong. You are not soulless. Emotionally unstable, yes, but not soulless."


"Thank you, darling," Alisa replies cheerfully